---
title: "Otrum interactive TV solutions are now fully Chromecast-enabled"
description: "Otrum interactive TV solutions are now fully Chromecast-enabled, allowing the guest to stream content from their own mobile devices to the in-room TV. Guests..."
pubDate: 2017-11-30
image: "/images/blog/chromecast.jpg"
author: "ClubDisplay"
---

Otrum interactive TV solutions are now fully Chromecast-enabled, allowing the guest to stream content from their own mobile devices to the in-room TV. Guests can access content from Netflix, HBO, iTunes, YouTube and a 1000 more content rich applications. Nigel Bateson, SVP Products at Otrum comments, “Google Chromecast is at the top of the hotelier and guest wish list, and is now released across all Otrum interactive TV platforms. Otrum offers the hotelier a branded portal for guest streaming services, seamlessly supporting both Android and iOS mobile clients. Unlike AirPlay and Miracast, the Chromecast solution allows the guest to cast content and simultaneously use their mobile devices for other applications.” Andreas Tønnesen, Director of R&D at Otrum, adds “Guest security is always a major consideration in any development work that we carry out at Otrum, and of course the hotels are demanding this too. For a hotel guest to use Chromecast via an Otrum solution, we require secure authentication between the TV and the guest mobile device, this ensures that content is only shown on the desired screen. For simplicity, this authentication is possible via onscreen code or QR capture.” Otrum Chromecast allows unlimited guest devices to be authenticated during the guest stay, on checkout all streaming services will be disabled and guest device data deleted. As hoteliers want to understand guest behaviour, Otrum’s statistics module allows them to monitor the uptake and usage of the Chromecast solution. Following Otrum’s strategy of ‘born in the cloud’ software solutions, all set-up, management, monitoring and maintenance takes place above-property in the Otrum web portal. This includes auto-discovery of hardware, remote signal level monitoring, set-up and configuration. Product highlights: Branded guest experience. iOS and Android compatible. Secure guest authentication. Web-based management. Usage analytics. Automated deployment tools. Please take contact with us for a proposal. About Otrum Otrum is the market leading hosted solutions partner to the hospitality industry, with software operating across multiple platforms including TVs, signage and smart devices. Otrum operates with a network of strategic partners throughout Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Central Asia. For more information, visit www.otrum.com . Wilt u meer weten? Neem dan contact met ons op
